
    Since lens with high focal distance are generally not that fast and they need high shutter to freeze moving animals, how do they get light without addind too much gain an grain ?
  
The wildlife photographers I know will use whatever iso is required to get the photo. Better to have some noise in the photo then no photo. You can also clean the noise up in post.
Since lens with high focal distance are generally not that fast
how do they get light without addind too much gain an grain ? 
Rent your own elephant and bring it back to the studio where the big big Lights are 
Looking for the right light. Fast lenses. High ISO. Lots of waiting and taking a lot of shots that don't turn out.
what do you mean? What's so strange about say 1/1000s f/4 in daylight?
Everyone here is going on about fast lenses but, while I’m no professional,  I literally use a kit lens.   At 250mm its biggest aperture is 5.6.  When I’m shooting birds or animals I just go auto iso on manual setting and don’t go above 1600 iso on my canon rebel t7.
Modern cameras can shoot at much higher ISOs without objectionable grain than they ever have before. Couple that with long telephotos that are faster (sure they're not f/1.8 or f/2 that you see in shorter lenses) lenses and you're filling the frame at a distance with a usable ISO and shutter speed.
Crank that ISO baby.   12800 is acceptable for me on a full frame body.  You can always clean it up in post. 
With enough money you can get lenses that are long and fast. Otherwise, you seek out good light; one of the biggest tips for beginner wildlife photographers is to go out at the right time of day. Direct sunlight an hour or so after dawn is more than sufficient to freeze motion with minimal noise, even at a reduced aperture on an APS-C camera body (400mm, f8, 1/2000s, ISO400).
With DxO DeepPrime, noise is getting close to being irrelevant.
Daylight generally provides enough light for the job.
Just let that ISO climb and clean it later. Topaz denoise, DxO, LR C Denoise all work wonders for making an ISO 10000 shot look decent.
F4 is pretty fast and there are fast telephoto lenses like the 600mm f4. They cost an arm and leg but professional photographers rent them, or their work pays for them.
It's not like f/2.8 and f/4 telephoto lenses don't exist; they're just crazy expensive. Though even that said, they're like used car expensive - not totally out of reach for someone who's really into wildlife photography.
IT's a combination of:
Most havent said it but it also depends on the subject. Some scenes are so still that you can even get away with 1s exposures. Ive shot sharp owls in dark when I cant even see them but since they are quite still, I can still use longer exposures.
A lot of attention has been given here to long lens work, but there's a lot of wildlife photography done with camera trapping: setting up cameras and strobes in weatherproof housings with IR triggers, and for years crop body cameras (and before that was 35mm film) were the standard and are still regularly used for images published in NatGeo.
I shoot sports photography at 500mm, f/8, generally shutter speed of 1/1000, and I set the iso to auto but if it's day time it never goes too high.
Pro wildlife photographers will spend tens of thousands of dollars to get a faster lens.
Enjoy the hunt, your skills will get better over time. Just put your camera into manual with auto ISO and forget about it. Clean up in post.
You don’t need what you think you need. I have a fast telephoto, but I hang around at f/6.3-f/9 and almost never shoot wide open if I don’t have to. Bright, sunny days mean I can go with a 1.4x attached and shoot at ISO 100. Cameras these days are way better at higher ISO in regards to noise than they were in the past. High ISO can easily be your friend here. Crank it up. You might be surprised.
Shoot in bright places :)
If your subject fills most of the frame, iso 10000+ is not really an issue with good post processing. If you pixel peep, you will find problems with most photos that aren't really problems.
When I shoot in darker conditions, shooting RAW, high ISO, and proper shutter really, my better pics definitely are primo lighting and perfect conditions, but finding the right spot and getting a tripod set up is helpful as well
fast pro lenses. Aside from large apertures the coatings and quality of glass add a hard to define extra vibrance to the shots.. sharpness, contrast etc
Flash. No kidding. Just a smidge.
Ai literally replaces the noise dots into pixel colour. Gone are the days of noisy photos
You are constantly trying to use the lowest possible shutter speed. With something like a perched bird, I'll go down to 1/25. For flying birds, you don't have to get every frame sharp (especially if you have a fast camera like an a1 at 30 fps), so while I used to shoot at 1/3200 I'll now shoot at 1/1600 for cleaner images. 
Practice and money.
With decent stabilization, which is a given for any usable wildlife lanes, you can use a shutter speed that's about half of the one over focal length rule. So for example instead of 1/600th for a 600 mm lens, you can use 1/300th if it's really dim.
I get plenty of light with my RF 400 f/2.8, and my M.Zuiko 150-400 f/4.5
They fill their memory cards with thousands of pics and cull down to the best ~10%
The new AI Noise Reduction in Adobe is borderline witchcraft.
Modern cameras are ISO invariant.  The better advice is to shoot underexposed.
enough here's a 200-500mm 2.8 for over $20,000 
I've buried myself in snowbanks enough times to carry a blaze orange "please don't shoot the suspicious lump" flag as standard gear in the winter. I've also found that setting up a comfy chair just off the beaten path and taking a short nap is a good way to get smaller wildlife to approach you.
Yuuup. Seldom are wildlife shots done with a flash in a nightclub, though I'm sure critters get down in their own secret spots.
I'm searching plasma on B&H and it gave me iPad cases and TV mounts
Or only shoot at the local zoo.
I've recently tried my hands at analog photography. I've thought I have to take my ultra fast lens to take any good photos without a tripod. Turned out that in full summer sun everything is overexposed and I'd actually need a lower iso film.
That’s a good lookin’ grackle.
great photos!
I’ve gotten some of my favorite photos with my trusty 80D and that lens! Now I’ve moved to the EOS R and 100-400 (basically the same reach).  
These are some great shots! I've been pondering getting a tele so I can shoot wildlife and seeing such nice results with a kit lens convinced me I don't need to spend a ton for the faster kits.
Yeah for my part, if anything this duck wanted a narrower aperture - lost a lot of definition in the feathers - also taken with a kit lens
I'm wondering about that too. Generally, you want to overexpose a little rather than under cause you can easily fix that in post.
Not to forget you can do what is essentially dark magic in ISO noise reduction these days in post, leaving detailed images and the noise removed, I was honestly shocked at some of the stuff coming out of topaz (which is on black Friday sale right now) and people claim the recent updates to Photoshop improve on that (but not had chance to check personally).
Slow as hell though, Photolab is much faster and has been doing the same thing for years.
Are you talking about the one in Lightroom?  If so do you know how it compares to topaz?  I’ve just been using it since I started
It’s also slow as shit and the first destructive editing tool in Lightroom.  It’s good as a last resort and Proof of Concept but really doesn’t fit a professional workflow.  Hopefully they will fix these things.
There was an amazing nature show on Netflix where a team made an HD super low light camera and filmed animals in Africa using starlight. Wish I knew the name but if I remember correctly, a large portion of the budget was spent on just producing the one-off camera.
Google "giant ball" and see if that helps.
With your camera, obviously.
Maybe to ad to those "weird ideas". I was gifted a zenit camera with Helios-44 lens. The lens is famous for "swirly" effect when shooting wide open and at most you can set it a stop or two lower to get sharper image. I can shoot it whole day until it gets too dark when I reach a point where the images get too dark or expsoure time get's too long for me to hold it in hands. Same with "normal" lens for my camera, the only problem is not enough light. So for a while I followed the usual "I need faster lens" route.
Thank you kindly!
Thanks!
Oh wow I love them both!
I've never used topaz. Can you use it for all editing, like crop, white balance, brightness, etc? Or would you need PS or Lightroom along with it? The black Friday sale is intriguing.
It’s very RAM intensive
I have 128gb ram. Denoise is finished in 10 or fewer seconds on 33 megapixel files. Denoise isnt slow in Lightroom... your computer is.
It’s not slow, your GPU is. You just need an Nvidia GPU, it’s accelerated by the tensor cores. A $200 RTX 3050 will get you down to probably 30 seconds or less. I do LR AI Denoise on 45MP files in 6 seconds on a 4080.
Slow? It takes on average about 4 seconds with my 45 megapixel files.
Does camera raw in photoshop support it I wonder?
Plus using it in an open ass space in colder conditions with little haze.
Earth at night
Appreciate it, thanks! These were from a few years ago, but I'm still working on achieving near perfect clarity like you've appeared to have mastered haha.
It's mostly for the specific tools it has, sharpening, enlarging and noise reduction, I still use other packages to edit.
I didn't notice any RAM issues personally, it's more GPU bottlenecked for me. Perhaps it's a matter of image resolution.
I have 64gb ram and a 3060Ti, it's definitely GPU limited. I also have the A7IV with 33MP, and normally it takes around 10s but for complex details I'd say up to 30s or so.
And yet Photolab is much faster at doing a better job. I'll stick with what works 👍
I've got an Nvidia GPU... and 30 seconds a shot (?!) Is slow. Photolab it's more like 10/12 seconds a shot.
Which GPU, out of curiosity? You must be shooting events or nighttime panos, something in bulk. If you’re editing single shots with care, I can’t imagine a few extra seconds being an issue. A friend of mine with no discrete GPU takes about 50 minutes to run it, so I assumed that’s what you meant by slow. I would also consider the amount of time it takes to export/open in photolab and import back into Lightroom as part of the equation. To each their own.
