
    Apologies if this gets asked allot. Absolutley done with watching my regular YT photography channels, I just don't give a shit about new gear anymore, awful clickbait thumbnails & titles are getting worse, and the tribal nature between big brand fanboys in comment sections is boring. I want to remove myself from this part of the photography world to stop that feeling of always needing to upgrade.
  
Simon D'entremont
https://youtube.com/@simon_dentremont?si=DZipxSOw8_-FpmDi
What kind of photography? For landscape my favourite is Thomas Heaton. 
I like Morten Hilmer
Try Sean Tucker Photography.
Paulie B for Street Photography
As others have started:
The Photographic Eye - Others have mentioned it, for good reason. All about the art, spirit and philosophy of photography. His videos are a fun way to discover great photographers of the past who are worth studying.
FotoTripper, Adam Gibbs, Nick Page Photography.
The Photographic Eye,is very very good.
You might like Tatiana Hopper's channel. She talks about famous photographers and more obscure, less-known ones as well. She also explores more philosophical aspects of photography.
I've recently gotten into the Imitative Photography channel. Great insight into styles of photographers and walkthrough on how to shoot in that style.
This is such a good resource!
Daniel Norton on  Adorama TV is excellent if you want to learn more about portrait lighting.
Here's a few I like - Roman Fox, teemu.mp4, James Popsys, Pierre Lambert, Faizal Westcott, Eren Sarigul
I love Nick Carver's on-location stuff.
I love Teo Crawford’s channel, he always inspire me. His quick analysis of why his photographs are good or not good is really helpful in determining your own.
James Popsys is one of my favorite! Although he does still do some gear videos from time to time.
Hey kiddos, nobody mentioned Daniel Milnor https://www.youtube.com/@DANIELMILNOR505 yet?
I really like North Borders for car stuff!
if anyone puts Peter Mckinnon in here, i will loose my shit!
I think most have been mentioned. I will reiterate Thomas Heaton for nice out in the field videos. The Photographic Eye is good. Tatiana Hopper for a good dive into specific photographers. A recommendation of my own is Alex Nail, his in thd field stuff is pretty spectacular, but some of his tutorials are also very good.
Paulie B and his series called walkie talkie which has introduced me to some great contemporary photographers, Grainydays is fun if youre into film
Paulie B's Walkie Talkie sessions: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=je-6eACZoZk&list=PLEZD_EqdEEVK9xlpkr7Vxs_gz9FHCCEbq&index=2
Nick Carver. Basically only film and mostly large format.
Paulie B
I love his Walkie Talkie series 
Nigel Danson
Not YT, but a podcast. 'Lenswork'
James Popsys
I’ll add The Photographic Eye because it’s a lot about finding yourself as a photographer, getting through slumps, etc. and is not very much about gear and technique. He concentrates on the art and beauty with many examples. It’s mission seems to be to inspire.
I really enjoy  Frederik Trovatten's videos. Very chill and informative. The ones where he teaches about a specific photographer and tries to imitate them are my favorites, you can get a lot out of it
Sean Tucker is my favourite YouTuber for photography. He does this interview series and asks photographers about their processes and ways of thinking- less focus on gear and more on creating great results. I love his style, and he communicates well.
[deleted]
Pat Kay
Sean Tucker
I think Courtney Victoria also fits here perfectly.
Andy Mumford is fabulous for landscape stuff.
There's a channel called "art of photography" for a start.
You might like my Matt Talks Photography as it has some image deconstruction which is rare on YouTube. Haven’t had much time to work on it but it might tide you over for a bit.
I think Ramsey Kiefer is enjoyable. It’s just chill videos and odd humor. Nothing to do with gear.
Paulie B does a great series of walk and talks with other photographers.
The photographer playlist on the Louisiana Channel is great for getting into the photographic art side of things. Highly recommend. 
Louisiana Channel -photography and art
I like Matt Day and Joe Allam
e6 vlogs.
Some of my favorite channels do some gear related once in a while, but those are far and in between. For example Ted Forbes (The Art of Photography), Thomas Heaton, Nigel Danson, e6 Vlogs, First Man Photography, Hudson Henry, Mike Smith Photography
I like Mads too. He talks more about composition than anything else honestly.
Paulie B for street. 
Behind the lens
[deleted]
My choice is Kyle McDougall, Chris Chu, Faizal Westcott (he sometimes talk about gear but not in a review way but rather a user standpoint), KingJvpes, Matt Day and Willem Verbeeck. 
Anybody got any suggestions for ICM photography?
I’m a big fan of Peter Coulson on Yt.
The videos from Chase Jarvis channel from around ten years ago. When he was just a photographer.
For Street, Framelines is up there with the best. Im shocked that it hasn't already been mentioned:
https://youtube.com/@frame-lines?feature=shared
Thomas Heaton
Try Sean Tucker as well.  He's a British photographer.
https://youtube.com/@seantuck?si=Qg_wkAy91-usWZwz
I really miss Andrew Kearns. His stuff is still worth checking out but damn it was always a good vibe.
I really enjoy Steve O’Nions, mostly landscape but great stuff.
Vuhlandes. Truly visually-stunning videos time and time again.
Gxace shouldn’t be on the list. The quality of his videos are nothing short of outstanding and you should absolutely check him out, but almost all his videos is about gear.
Don’t forget Bryan Birks. Fantastic
You could try Jonas Paurell. He runs Terra photography expeditions and I have been on a workshop with him in Lofoten. He is a great teacher and he recently re-launched his YT channel. It is really good and no gear reviews in sight. https://www.youtube.com/@jonaspaurell
I mean not really what you are looking for but I was thinking about doing something like this. When I started photography I used everything to make cool photos shower curtains, desk lamps, cheap leds, as I got more into it though I became more focused on gear to achieve the next thing. Anyway my thought was I should make some videos showing how to use everyday materials to make interesting photography. Now with you bringing it up I think I'm going to do just that.
Photography Online is a professionally produced TV show style channel based in Scotland which focuses on various genres.
@PhilHadleyPhotos does live stuff that just focuses on editing pictures, but they're all marching band related right now.  All the pre-recorded posted videos are marching band performances.  So i'd say it's pretty niche
I like Mike Smith for Landscape photography and for learning/refreshing your memory on some of the basics.
Joanna Kustra has some great videos. Can't remember who but I found her from a recommendation here a couple of weeks ago. Great information about using colour that can apply to any shoot and portraits.
Nev Cartledge. Rarely uploads but always worth a watch.
Matt Day, Thomas Heaton, Samuel Streetlife
I like Evan Ranft's Youtube a good bit.
Darren J Spoonley Photography, for landscape photography.
Thanks for this
The Photographic Eye
James Bell Photography  this guy is quite local to me and I like his relaxed style, very chilled.
My channel is split between wildlife/landscape/nature photos/video and climbing content. 
https://www.youtube.com/@johnoutdoorvideos
I’ve got one, if you like the NZ landscape and processing tips.
The real sir robin is often good
Schaller just started one that’s super informative and funny. https://youtube.com/@alan_schaller?si=aDcUnTNSuNDp3e8w
I’m a big fan That Icelandic Guy. Lots of his videos are tutorial based but he really walks through his thought process on landscape photography.
I really like JP Morgan's channel, The Slanted Lens there's some equipment discussion, but his process for strobes and lighting, and how to stop the camera from fighting you are gold. He's got a lot of material going back a long ways, more focused on portraiture and product shots.
Thank you!
cj
Thanks !
On one hand I'm grateful for the YT gear reviews, as when new kit comes out it's good to know the ins and outs. There are several reviewers that I trust, such as Gerald Undone. 
Morten Hilmer, Thomas Heaton, James Popsys, etc
Northwest Depressed is pretty cool channel about film stuff
I know it's already on your list but Nick Carver x2
Adrien Sanguinetti
Peter Coulson
Ben Horne, Landscape, large format, film, slow. While there are gear videos, they aren't your typical gear videos.
Sean Bagshaw, landscape photography. Very good post processing tutorials. He’s also an all around nice guy.
If you like Grainy Days, Graincheck and Willem Verbeeck are similar. Kyle McDougall is great too.
I cannot recommend enough the channel EYExplore. He's a great working photographer based in Tokyo. His photography and general discussion are engaging. But his most impressive trait is his ability to talk through his thinking while he's shooting. He is incredibly clear and cogent in real time about his choices for exposure and composition while shooting on the street.
Hard to say, a lot of channels seem to be about photography then transition to camera gear because that’s where all the views are.
Brae Hunziker for film photography in the PNW
Nigel Danson (landscape), Steve Perry (wildlife), Steve Mattheis (wildlife) are all pretty good.
Simon’s Utak for older gear reviews, done with such high production values - https://youtube.com/@Simonsutak?si=AxfHHPbiEzmedhbA and Anthony Morganti for excellent LR, PS, Topaz, and other tips and reviews.
Nice
The Photogrphic Eye
Shameless plug... for my channel. I do my podcast as YouTube videos every week.  IT is landscape and nature focused. Cheers. https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQuPZKCZaLK5N9XUviXoZkA
Seems like a ton of these guys are landscape photographers, so I'll throw in someone different. Josh Ball still has a pretty small following (under 5k) but as someone who shoots often with models (I'm terrible at making vids though), it's hard to find a model photographer on YT who doesn't outright serve up the models in lewd poses in their thumbnails or vids while still creating sexy lifestyle photos. He also does all of the BTS himself, which isn't easy at all. And throughout most of the shoots, he describes what he's doing and why he's doing it so you can learn from him as well.
I'd add Mark Denney for landscape, too.
I really like watching pov street photographers. 
I'll suggest adding Mark Denny to the list. I've learned quite a bit from him over the years.
I like James Popsys. He does do some gear videos but not all. He's actually very entertaining to me.
Phlearn / Aaron Nace photoshop compositing
James Reader
Ribsy -Film Street portraiture
Just dropping in to give my vote for  Simon D'entremont . He is by far the best no-nonsese photography instructor on You Tube. His videos are clear, comprehensive, to the point and don't waste time with filler.
You should check Olle Nilsson and Saurav Sinha also
Two of my personal favorites are:
For studio stills I like Camera Club Live. For street, a few that have already been listed but also StreetSnappers.
I have a channel that I started last year, all POV footage of me travelling around South East Asia shooting mostly street photography. Not much talk about gear apart from mentioning what i'm using occasionally. The channel is slowly picking up steam, check it out! I'd appreciate it.
“HAPPA WORLD”😍🌿https://youtube.com/@HappaWorld?si=TEvGvqKxYfsKRt9k
To be honest, I watch grainydays for the snarky comments and sarcasm. Mountain Dew anyone?
MangoStreet is my favorite
Toma Bonciu. search on YT and you will find his channel. I've known him since 2012 and he is a really good landscape photographer. he also has other projects too and some gear reviews. his main point is that if you know what you are doing you can get great results with any gear.
Brian Lloyd Duckett for street photography
chris marquardt - aka tips from the toop floor
Cant recomend CameraClubLive enough!
I'm surprised by how little Jamie Windsor has been mentioned. For someone who is a hobbyist and has not done art in university, his focus on the meaning of photography in art, in life, in society is very refreshing to me compared to other YT channels. Don't get me wrong, I love the calming voice of Thomas Heaton and seeing how he goes about capturing beautiful nature photos. But those videos don't make me thoughtful.
James Popys is a great channel, based in Wales/UK.
Paulie B 
Tin House Studio for commercial photography
I haven't seen Henry Turner mentioned. Great landscape photography journeys and all round lovely guy.
Nathan Elson’s channel. He goes in depth into lighting (and sometimes editing) for how he created shots. 
James Parsons Photography is really good. He’s a street photographer with great storytelling. Has a load of different kind of actionable content and artistic philosophy. I believe he runs his own agency too. Definitely check him out. Still fairly unknown with 11k subs but I doubt he will be for long
I'm a huge fan of AOWS. He is currently is the largest influence on my work.
Three I like that don't focus on gear (that much):  
GxAce is the real deal
Hands-on Photography with Ant Pruitt
Eyexplore. 
Alec Soth did book reviews for a while, worth a view.
i watch Simon D'entremont for tips and tricks aswell as Nigel Danson.
if i just want to watch entertaning photogrphy content i watch NorthBorders, Inyourfeyes, Hayden Pedersen(photobattle's) and Becki and chris if they have any resent photography videoes out
Thomas Heaton is one of my personal favourite landscape photographers.
https://www.youtube.com/@TinHouseStudioUK
I enjoy watching Nigel Danson, James Popsys, Mads Peter Iverson, Simon D’entremont. They don’t focus on gear. The first 3 are like vloggers taking you on their journeys with them and just discuss photography in general, give their opinions on things, give their own advice and just be entertaining. Simon is a more educational channel. Especially for nature photographers
I do enjoy James Popsys' channel, its more of a mix between gears and the process.
Walk Like Alice (especially if you like street photography)
Do I dare self promote? 😂
I’m trying to get my channel up and running with some out shooting videos. Link in profile :)
faizalwestcott, fototripper, aows, grainydays
Peter McKinnon
Hudson Henry
Simon is the shit
I have been following Simon on instagram since before he was making videos. I haven’t watched many of his videos but the rate at which he’s growing has blown my mind.
Simon is amazing! The videos are so focused and well presented.
This for sure 100%. I love his content.
I teach photography for my day job and Simon is my #1 pick for students when they ask for good educational content to watch.
Brilliant, thanks
Simon is the first one I thought of too!
Simon is great!
I love Simon.  I also like his evil twin but forgot his name.
Simon FTW! His content is so addictive I even now automatically say his name See-mon instead of how I’ve read that name all my life - Sai-mon
Thomas Heaton, watching his channel is like eating soup in winter. Great suggestion.
Came here to suggest Thomas Heaton, watching one of his videos can sometimes feel like you’re on a photography trip with a friend. He keeps the advertisements in the video and self promotion to a minimum too which I highly appreciate.
Also hopping on the Thomas Heaton bandwagon. Love his super chill videos about landscape photography.
Any genre! Brilliant, thanks so much for the suggestions
I love him but I get such FOMO when I do so I gotta be in the right mindset
Yeah, he’s probably my favorite right now. A lot of that is because he shoots a lot like how I shoot (though he’s better than me), and so I really feel connected to how he works, and he can offer some nice insight and new ideas that I can work into my shooting.
Came here to say the same!
love this guy
And in the same vein; Jamie Windsor
I love Sean Tucker. Also Mango Street.
I watched Sean Tucker for about a month this summer, and learned some fun facts and got some inspiration... 
Paulie B is incredibly talented chap. Very rare in the sea of crap that is on Youtube.
I feel like The Art of Photography is nothing but gear and has been for the past few years.
Cheers!
Thanks so much for taking the time to write that, what a detailed comment! Will check these out and add them to the list :)
I love Nick Page’s style, particularly the way he processes light.
Fototripper is amazing, the videos are often long but he's so funny!
Great stuff, thank you!
Thanks will check it out
Second this one and also throwing out Steven Brooke  who provides some very high value architecture photography tutorials. I don't watch him much these days but I used to really like watching James R Burns who's a very chill landscape photographer based in the UK. He's just sort of a calming guy to watch and listen to and takes some really beautiful pictures.
That definitely sounds interesting, thank you!
Great shout!
yes! upvoted this to bring it higher!
+1 her and The Photographic Eye are stellar.
Agreed, love learning the history of the different photographers I didn't know about and learning their techniques. Quickly becoming my favourite photography channel
Yeah, such a cool channel! So much historical context and good explanations of the techniques used. And always fun to see him go out and take good photos.
For film photography Grainydays
You absolute legend!! Must have taken ages. The list is getting huge lol. I wish we could pin this to the top.
thanks for doing all the legwork
And Gavin Hoey too. I learned so much from them on lighting
Daniel is awesome.
I do actually! Thanks
Another upvote for Roman Fox! Takes lovely photos, is down to earth and great advice on photography. He is a Fuji shooter and there are some gear-oriented videos, but it’s not the main focus of his channel.
Yeah he's got a really cool niche that I love as a guy who grew up working around the remote and abandoned stuff of California.
Yeah his channel is good! Big fan of the gx80
Yeah he's my favourite, but he even says on the gear ones he's sorry but he's excited about it, plus doesn't go deep into the specs but more how his photos have changed due to it.
3 out 4 videos James makes lately seems to devolve into gear talk, which is a shame because he's really talented, but I guess having a baby at home limits your chances to go shooting somewhat.
Yes, but half his gear videos are along the lines of this.
Haha, Mike is great...keep having a shit one!
Had to scroll to the bottom to see Mckinnon's name. 5-7 years ago his videos were fun and informative. Then... no... just no... sponsored gear vids, travel vlogs, construction vlogs, and it felt to me like he was more about growing himself as a brand and not the earlier educational stuff.
You just did. :)
I love his series so much and the people he interviews.
The grainydays dry humour is right up my alley LOL when a new video drop it feels like Xmas
Is that still going? Blimey, I used to listen to him, must have been 15 years ago?
Yeah I like James, he's got a great personality for it.
He makes it look so easy!
Love MarkusPix! He's the one that's going to survive my purge
Yes, I like that channel!
Great, thanks mate I'll check it out!
And his course, which he plugs 3 times per video.
All he talks about is his overpriced courses. He’s ruined his channel with the adverts.
No one has because he doesn’t do clickbait or gear so gets way less views than he should. His photos are amazing.
Surprised i had to scroll this far for Willem. Great channel and such a great photographer.
Stephanie Johnson has a channel with a few videos, but she mostly runs workshops.
Peter Coulson is great for learning studio lighting. He’s also been a pro ling before YouTube, so actually knows what he’s talking about.
For Street, Framelines is up there with the best.
It's a really good channel, must check. Focused more on the creativity rather than the gear!
Anything really! I think I've just been stuck in the gear obsessed algorithmic part of YouTube for too long.
Her color grading/color theory video is next level!
Don't watch this guy, you'll just want to give up before you even start.
Definitely. Clickbait is a weird one, it obviously works, but it actually makes me avoid videos with garish thumbnails & titles. I just kinda feel like it insults my intelligence.
His videos have a relaxing quality to them. For me the most fun is the shock from the locals when a Polish man in a shellsuit starts speaking fluent Japanese.
Plug away dude! I'll check it out :)
GxAce for futuristic space age storytelling.
Thanks so much, I'll definitely check them out.
Not sure host he camera model is relevant here especially since OP emphasized they don’t care about gear…
Good stuff, cheers
Tin
Addding Thomas Heaton to that list as well!
Are you me? I find Popsys to be really good, he seemingly turns on his camera with only a vague idea of what he wants to talk about, but it always ends up both insightful and entertaining.
Sure dude! Cheers I'll check it out!
Nice, thank you
Simon makes up for all the shitty gear and spec regurgitating channels
He’s the Bob Ross of YouTube photography videos
I like the way he speaks, it's sort of relaxing in a way. His explanations are very clear.
Probably helps that his real career was as a high level civil servant and photography is his retirement hobby, so he has little need to shill equipment for maximum sponsorships or views.
His videos are so clear, and he is so straight to the point/ no BS. 
He 100% deserves it. I've watched his videos in the morning and gotten better photos by that evening. Also inspired me to pursue wildlife photography!
All of these things that people are complaining about are what pay the bills on youtube. Plenty of channels have tried; and not using "clickbait" titles and thumbnails actively harms viewership numbers which means the channel dies slowly because of how the algorithm works. Talking about gear means affiliate links, which is probably the largest or second largest source of revenue for smaller, niche channels.
The walkie talkie series is the best thing Youtube has to offer lately.
I watched Ted religiously for a very long time, stopped for a bit as I fell out of regular shooting and came back and it was all gear, all the time. He's gone back to doing some other content that isn't as gear focused, but it's a shadow of what it once was.
He is sometimes, but not always, I don't think. Like his episodes on photo books and zines are interesting.
Interesting… I thought he was doing far less!
The Photographic Eye is very informative.
You're welcome!
Sure thing! Didn't take too long, I'll add the new ones tomorrow when I get a free minute.
Yes Gavin is good too. Seth tends to fly  under the radar on that channel. He's also an excellent photographer that is basically Daniel's assistant or "technical guy" during the livestreams.
Yeah, that guy knows lighting.
until you find out they are done sarcastically
He's lately been seemingly moving back to that. I think Covid stonewalled his growth ideas pretty hard with his studio/collab space so he's out doing more work but I'm always more a fan of the vlog bts stuff.
Sure is. It's about the only podcast I can listen to nowadays.👴
[deleted]
I'm terrible at remembering the names of channels, I do know loads of them I'd just have to go through my subscriptions to find them.
Lol cheers mate.
Yeah some of them are cringe.
It is, not sure why he mentioned this channel since it's all about gear
It's an 8 year old camera. It seems relevant.
True he is really entertaining to watch
I love his like rambly type videos where he turns on the camera with a vague idea and just has a conversation. And his dry humour is just golden
🎉🎉🎉
I like Simon but honestly his videos are pretty repetitive as well.
I think that's Nigel Danson.
This 100 times over. I've literally listened to his video on the drive to a nature park and shot better photos there because of it.
Oh, I agree. They shouldn't do it for free.  I removed my ad blocker last year, I upvote, and subscribe and use affiliate links for channels that provide me entertainment or knowledge.   I buy merch, subscribe to patreons and kickstarters... 
I always recommend people the Daniel Emuna Walkie Talkie as a good intro to the series.
Haha I'd love to do that with my list, but I think I'd be here till Christmas 😂
Weirdly I first came across him when looking for photography bags, a video he specifically says is rubbish. Have followed him since, plus gives me ideas of places as I'm only half an hour away from Wales.
Yeah, he's just such a unique personality!
No worries mate, there been tons of good suggestions already haha
And I think that's why so many photography channels fall into the trap of gear reviews.  It always gives something new to talk about.  Simon at least tries to avoid that completely.
Yeah, thats fair.
At the end of the day there is only so much content to speak about without inevitably having to revisit some topics in one form or another. Especially with a lot of the type of instruction content he makes, so I get it
"It doesn't get better than this"
I love watching his videos, I live in California and it feels like he’s on another planet. So gorgeous.
IDK, I’ve appreciated that about his channel. So much of photography is about seeing. A channel that can help you see differently or frame differently is more photographical to me than most any technical tutorial.
Good one.
I probably rewatched every episode at least 3 times but some of my favorites are the ones with 
