
    Hello, i’ve been a photographer for sometime now. I have my own instagram page, my own equipment, and i have already posted a bunch. Recently i got hired at an event agency (photo/video) and i get to shoot most of their events (parties, weddings… you name it)
  
"But the real problem is that even the pictures i take myself, outside work, let’s say i call a friend out or take pics of my girlfriend and want to post them on my page, they won’t let me post without their presets as well (for marketing purposes) and to associate me with them." -
Copy/Paste the portion of the contract that details these restrictions here.
For clarity, are you posting the event stuff on your own IG or theirs?  
They don’t own everything you do. 
Just create an online account under a different name and post away. They’ll never know.
Most of the comments have been about whether or not the company can enforce this, but you also started that "They pay really good money, so idk what to do."
What you do outside of work is yours and not theirs. Unless you signed a very, very bad contract. Even then it's likely some of that is not enforceable.
if they're putting their name on it, then you deserve to get paid for it. if they arent paying you for it, they dont get to put their name on it....
For starters, do you have a contract with them that you signed? What does it say about this?
I doubt that legal, I don't see how they could own rights over what you might do off the clock.
But regardless of legality, it's most definitely abusive. 
they don't have any right over your personal account no matter what, as long as you don't post your personal stuff on their business account there is nothing they can do about it
Unless you have some sort of non-compete I don't see how this is a thing.
You need to say at least what country you're working in to get realistic advice. If you're in the US, do you have an independent contractor, employee with a work contract, or at will employee? Full time/part time?
Send them an invoice for your work off time if they want to use your copyrighted images or better yet get a new employer.
I would really like to see the verbiage in your contract that specifically states this. I find it very difficult to believe it's there, or that it's in any way legal. But seriously, if it's not writing they have no right to anything you do off the clock on your own time. If you did sign something agreeing to such a thing, I would get out of that ASAP.
What? There's no way they can enforce this. Grow a pair and tell them to fuck themselves
Take some dick pics and post them in their style with their logo. You’ll get fired but it will be worth it!
I suspect this is more them trying to prevent moonlighting getting paid by someone else which is lost revenue potentially vs you can post snaps to Facebook that are not on location - but yeah just ask
Make a fake alternate persona.  "I didn't take or post the photos, Jackie Daytona did!"
“Won’t let me” and “personal” don’t go together. People have to learn to stand up for themselves. 
The professional photography world is filled with people afraid to say no or take an L.
Why did you sign a contract giving them control of your photos taken off the clock?
fuck that
Unless they made you sign a contract that prohibits this, they have no say over what you do with your own equipment on your own time. And assuming there are no such terms in the contract, and they fire you over it, you should have grounds for an unlawful termination suit.
Unless you signed a non-compete contract and it explicitly says they own any work of yours/you cannot work on other projects, then they cannot enforce it nor can they use any of your images without your consent. They'd need to pay for licensing to do that.  Especially if it's on your time, your equipment,  your art direction, editing, etc. That photo is legally yours. 
Yeah, tell them to get fucked. What you do outside of work hrs is none of their business
The contract you signed is your guide. Check and recheck everything the contract states. 
I had a contract at a place once that said anything designed or invented during your working hours belongs to the company. And so I was like "if I work on my own company during lunch, you own it?" They crossed that out of my contract and signed it.
I think it depends on the contract I used to work for a manufacturing company (unrelated I know) but when I got hired they had a section of all the products/project I was potentially developing on my own time, any product not listed the company could claim as mine and I could always go and add something during the rest of my employment.
I think base the decision on whats more important freedom of expression without any limitations or a stable income. 
Personally a well paying photography jobs are hard to come by so you don’t want to hurt yourself by chasing own goals that may not reward you financially but will creatively. 
Are you an employee or work for hire!
What is in your employment contract?
Did you sign a contract with that clause in it? That seems like a gross overreach
It would be a good idea of you keep your personal IG account seprate for work and keep a different account for the photoshoots that you do with yours friend's and stuff
I wouldn’t accept that. It depends on your priorities though
Weird job you have
Absolutely not. Unless they're paying a hefty premium to reserve your time and copyright outside of working hours, they have no right whatsoever to dictate what you post on your personal social media page.
Separate ig accounts for personal and work. It sounds like a communication issue to me.
Just start a new IG page anonymously
Why do you comply with having your own photos ruled over by your employer? That's not their business. Stand up for yourself!
Just create a new account for your personal stuff!
So take up shooting something they won't want associated with their brand.   
Personal work on your personal page is nobody’s business but your own. If they want you to use their filter presets on your photos tell them there is a $250 fee per photo (since it’s marketing purposes).
I really hate this, because i can’t be creative anymore.
Create another IG account and don't ever tell them about it. What they're doing is messed up, and if you don't like their style you shouldn't be forced to use it on your own creative works.
Depends a little on where you are, if you're an at-will employee. I agree their requests are unreasonable, but the ultimately question might be whether or not you're willing to get fired over refusing. Which would be legal in many places, illegal in others. Depends on your location...where are you?
What does your contract say? 
Sounds like an amateur agency. Get out of there.
Did you sign a contract?  If so this may stipulate the issues you’re having. If not. Screw them!
Time to find a new job.
Block them in your social media.
Seems reasonable, did you sign a contract or consent that outlines willfull and unwillful usage of images? If not, speak to a legal professional and outline these stipulations. It's understandable if they pay good money(to your standards) then they are the buyer's. Our professional photography is only as the clients willingness to value it by buying. So I'd not have any complaints, Been doing this commercially for over a decade, and get paid we'll for it. Franky, I really don't care for the images they can keep it, it's the creative process that keeps me going. Getting paid to live day in and day out and get paid to do it? Thats just golden for me.
whatever is written on your contract you have to abide by if you signed it am sorry for you ....
I suspect you have a better legal position than you think, as others have detailed.
I would think an agency would know better on what it can/can't tell people they can/can't do in their own time. Then again an agency would also be the place these egos are most likely to exist cause they can't handle it anywhere else, haha.
Find something else. Delete and block their number.
What does the contract say and/or how bad do you need the money?
Are you using their equipment, software licenses, or doing it on company time?
How do other photographers of your level at the company handle this? See if any of them had the awkward conversation already and take notes.
IF this was performing, you get paid twice.  
Where are you located? Seems a very strange setup
Tell them no. You don’t get paid from them to take those images
Renegotiate the terms or walk. If you’re valuable enough that they want to be associated with you let them know that association is a two way street.
Crete another private Instagram account?
Your private photos taken outside of work are none of their business.  The work you do for them is to be performed according to their specifications.
Private your socials (re: friends and girlfriend pics). Start a new photography brand without your name on it.  
I would tell them that unless they want to pay you for the photographs, they remain your IP and they have no say in how you handle IP developed on your own time without them involved.
My guess is that this never happened.
How reasonable do they seem? You’re looking for a portfolio of your best work. Would it make sense to talk to them and ask if they would agree to let you edit a couple of your best photos from your events to use for your portfolio and IG, but delay the postings?  If they pay they pay, but not building a portfolio of your best work could certainly cost you a lot of money down the road.
Sounds like they’re getting ready to claim your personal shots as their IP. Get everything in writing and don’t sign anything without a copyright attorney reviewing it.
Nope. Not a chance.
Well, first, they’re rude. 
If you are a 1099 contractor the contract probably doesn't include a non compete and you have a big say in your working relationship.  If you are a W2 employee however, chances are there is a non compete clause in the contract and hence why they ask you to associate your outside work with them.
If you're a contractor (1099 tax form) they can't legally prevent you from doing your own work. 
There’s been a lot of focus on the overreach with your personal accounts, but I will note that you should let go of your frustrations with their presets, color, and logo on their photos. The photos you shoot for them should look like their photos. You were hired to work on their style, and it sounds like their style is profitable, so maybe there’s something to it. At least for their audience.
Did you sign any sort of agreement that would let your boss pry into your private life? If not, your boss is likely violating the law. Go on about your life, and post whatever pictures you want on your personal accounts. If you get fired for it you can probably bring legal action against the company you work for.
They are trying to steal your work, time for a new job
If you already had your IG page before you started working for them, then keep it to post your personal work and create a second account for posting shots related to their business. Anything you post on the account associated with them you can use their presets and logos, but your work is your work and they don’t get to tell you what you can and can’t do with it.
Just post it, what are they gonna do, fire you? In that case good riddance.
Make another instagram account - post all the photos you want there
Ok just use different presets. lol problem solved.
Legally, if you are not at work, and taking pictures for your own enjoyment, they have no  contractual right to those pictures, and have no legal right to impose you to have their logo on your personal pictures!!!  These were not taken at an event that they hired you.  These are your personal!!  There is a strict separation between work and personal.
Find a new job, that’s insane, not fair and totally uncool.  No job is worth loosing your freedom and creative growth.  I’ve been a professional photographer for decades now and always did it on my own, it’s fine to work for others and totally legit they force you to edit their way and not use or share the pix you take while on the job.  It’s a bit lame but companies do that, and it’s reasonable.  However, it should stop with work. You doing your own thing and posting and developing your own style is critical to your happiness.  Seek another job and once you find one then you can bargain with this employer and not worry about loss of income when they tell you their rules are their rules.
Take the money
I'm no expert, but I don't think the can actually do that.
They can't do that. If they want to use your own personal Instagram page to promote their presets then they have to offer compensation for it.
I think they aren't allowed to do this, but I see your dilemma liking the job.
If it’s not written in your contract it ain’t real.
I think there’s a lot of misinformation being spread here. This would be a better conversation to have with a lawyer, imo. Having that said, it’s super weird that they would place any restrictions on your work, outside of work.
I didn’t expect this to get this much attention overnight, thanks everyone!
Where is this? I’m in the US and that isn’t legal-unless you explicitly agree to it, and/or are on the clock as an employee (I’m not a lawyer but have studied my rights as a photographer pretty well). Did you sign a contract? If so, what does that say? Are they paying for your time to create this personal work? I’d start a new account and bill them. I don’t brand / shoot / work for free. That is work. 
Just make another Instagram account
Lyn
H
Look for a new job. Immediately. After you find one, never let another employer impose upon your personal, away from work life in this unreasonable sort of way ever again unless you're getting paid A TON of money. A TON.
The solution is simple. Just create an artist name and hide what you are doing privately behind it. 😉
If you get fired, that’s a big payday :) your boss is kinda childish and does not know legal work vs private work.
They can't control your portfolio outside of work.
I'd double check the contract first to ensure you don't have any misunderstandings about it. 
- not blaming you for that - everyday employees aren't contract lawyers.
Welcome to work for hire. 
Take the money or source your own clients.
Block them from viewing your page. Block each and everyone of them. 
Create an account for work, with this employer.  Create a private account.
I'm pretty sure that's illegal. As an employer, they own the work you do for them, but they absolutely do not own you or your own personal work
at the end of the day the bag is all that matters
So they’re paying you for the photos you take outside of work too then?
But the real problem is that even the pictures i take myself, outside work, let’s say i call a friend out or take pics of my girlfriend and want to post them on my page, they won’t let me post without their presets as well
No no no. These people don’t own your personal life.  Absolutely not.
They don’t own you and they can’t force you to post to your personal Instagram. My advice, if you’re looking to keep this gig, would be to tell them you’ll be setting up a separate Instagram that will include work done for them, as you’d like to keep your “portfolio” separate. Whether you post on that account is up to you, I personally wouldn’t look to promote them at all, but at least it’ll be a separate account if it becomes necessary or you feel like it. 
Start up an Instagram account called ugly, hairy toes and let them decide to separate your branding.
Yeah, no. You legally own the copyright to ALL of your photos unless you sign off on them. For example, when I shot for our newspaper, I would submit several for a story. The ones they published became the property of the newspaper. The photos they did NOT use were still mine. 
Aight, that's concerning!  So as to keep the work events on preset autopilot like maintaining that split personality, but let the usual perfect blend? Their presets taking over during events and ur personal shots staying true to the artistic chaos within unfiltered raw shots. Just say that it affects your creativity & the audience are different. It's all about finding that balance even if you go the blunt way!
Find out if you are allowed to do freelance work. That will help you with the conversation.  They want to grow their brand, however they aren’t going to pay you for it. 
Unless there is a contractual obligation as condition of your hiring and employment, they cannot force you to use their presets and watermark on your own privately taken pictures. 
They can't dictate your personal pace unless you use it to market yourself for them. I would just make a second page for your creative style and don't link it to your page or the business.
Not legal advice.
Did you sign a contract stating that they own copyright to all your images even outside the hours you work for them? 
my first option would be to talk it out and make it clear that they can't force you to anything
There’s “the contract”
This answer. Create a work only IG for their stuff. Then post whatever you please on your personal IG.
This is what I was wondering too. I understand the company wanting to protect their image & branding- and you are working under them so your sole purpose with said company is to drive traffic to them- however there shouldn’t be an issue with OP having a separate page for their personal life or their personal business. As long as OP isn’t using the business page to promote their personal work, it shouldn’t be a problem.
Came here to say this. Have a professional photography account thats for work and has tgeir settings. Have another that's for personal photos and never follow them.or post anything to do with them.
That would be the ultimate malicious conplience
like Disney-themed BDSM kink photography with Pluto whipping naked Elsa or something
I'd happily pay for that and I'm not a even fan of BDSM or Disney.
unless OP signed something that gives it to them.   When I worked at IBM,  they would own the patent to anything I might create on my own time with my own resources.  I was forced to sign that form (or volunteer to not work there anymore).   I guess I could've put it all in wife's name if I created something.
with Pluto
Honestly, should probably have a professional and personal account anyways.
And neither will any of the people who currently follow OP.
Just create an online account under a different name and post away. They’ll never know.
Pretty much.
I have my own photography page, that’s where i post my own art, i don’t post it on the agency’s page, but even then they won’t let me use my own style and colors
and they'll say turn around and bend over. Photography jobs are hard to come by.  There's no need for confrontation but I'd suggest talking to them and perhaps explaining that they own the photo's you take for work but not the ones you're taking for your own pleasure.
If they have any self respect, they’ll do this.
It’s always best to go out with a bang
or lots of feet!! maybe keep your job and just make it awkward.
Regular human photographer
This is the other side of the coin - if money keeps coming and you don't have to do a lick of personal marketing, fuck a portfolio and all related headaches. If outsiders ask to see work samples - just point to the agency folio and claim all that work.
But the agency ONLY has a say in work done for them.
at-will employee
Legally they do. You sign a contract then you are bound by it. I am not saying I agree with it but lots of companies employ this kind of clause.
No, it’s not reasonable and you need to reread the post. They aren’t talking about controlling the images he is paid for.  They are talking about controlling how he presents his personal work created on his own time.
That’s not even close to true. Many clauses can be in a contract and not legally enforceable. If you signed a contract that stipulated that you had to amputate a finger every Thursday do you think you’d be stuck with that?
Wow! Just wow!
i have only a ‘verbal’ contract
I post my own art on my own separate photography page, but they want me to use thei logo and preset on those pictures as well
Yeah I know it could go sideways for op, but in my experience talking it out will resolve work issues 99% of the time, unless his boss is a real asshole, or op is leaving something out
So they can just fire you for no reason at all? Well that sucks.
I would be proud if I got fired for standing up to my own work.
Colorado is an "at will" state. They can fire you for any reason without explanation.
What’s the Montana & maybe CA/NY/NC policy you’re referencing? You’ve got me very curious.
Firing someone for no legit reason means like years salary as compensation where i live (plus possible legal costs they need to pay). So its a sweet deal if you ask me. Might not be a good idea if you live in some undeveloped country with no workers rights tho..
This is the way.
And the personal pages OP came into this company with should remain their personal ones free to use as they creatively desire, unless the company specifically bought the rights to those user names and feed contents and followers. 
 To comply with the company mandate, they should make a new account (or accounts) with the company name in the handle that uses the company style.
Yeah, this is the answer. What an amazing way to get fired by a shitty employer.
There's a 'she's fucking Goofy' joke in here somewhere I'm just too tired to come up with it.
So basically 'you work for us and you can't even develop a side hustle because we own that too.'
There are a few corporations that work this way and I heard Target was one of them as well.  Not sure how they are going to own people's creative thought processes, but it reminds me of Orwell's 1984.
Surely not with OP... Worker laws would make it something to take it up with their employer
With the bosses daughter
Boss has a foot fetish and loves it. Boss promotes OP. Demands more pics, more often. OP, in a brand new house thanks to the promotion, is starting to feel a bit dirty about this. He keeps up the piggly wiggly pics, and tries to live his life as normally as possible. Eventually it gets to him. Feet are occupying his nightmares. He can't even look at his own feet in the shower without thinking about how sexy they would be with a gel manicure and a pumice scrub. It's too late. This is his world now. He is, a foot guy.
At-will is generally limited to 49 states in the US. Canada, EU, Australia, etc. are different. And even in the US, the non-at-will employees would be about 12% of workforce: government workers, and/or members of unions, and/or on people with bona fide contracts. Contractors in the US (1099) are, more often than not, improperly classified. But even if someone is a legit contractor, their contract can be terminated for no reason unless the contract itself requires a legitimate reason.
There are 7 billion people in the world. 
You're actually not necessarily bound by provisions of a contract that are illegal, even if you agreed to them and signed the contract. In fact, in some cases, it would void the entire contract. Look up the contract law term "severance".
Yep, I did read that. Which is what's creating a conflict of interest. Because as he's/ she's on a payroll all creation hitherto shall be deemed as org property. 
Speak to a legal advisor, and clearly stipulate willful and unwillful usage of images. It's a small matter but pricey if left untouched.
This is really fucking weird and their is no logic behind such a petition
The principle is called "at will employment" – the contract is only active while both parties want it to be. The employee can slam the door at any minute, and the employer an show the worker out any time without even giving a reason. This kind of arrangement satisfies the libertarian philosophical sensibilities, but it puts the employer in a relatively more powerful position.
You can also quit for no reason at all.
Colorado is an "at will" state. They can fire you for any reason without explanation.
Montana isn't at-will. For the others, these statutes might protect OP:
…like the US. 🤦🏻‍♂️
Somewhere in Europe I’m guessing? 
Might not be a good idea if you live in some undeveloped country with no workers rights tho..
Or a country owned by corporations
bro what. what a shitty way to call out the US lol. pls don’t act like you didn’t know the US doesn’t have workers rights.
Congrats!
Wait till you hear about Elsa's 'big summer blowout'...😨

I'm going to go out on a limb here and guess that they're all American corporations
Why not bring mom and dad in and make it family fun night?
Didn’t assume that at all, I was asking what other types there are besides at will, because I couldn’t think of any others when I asked the question.
Don't make the mistake of thinking there is a world law.
Yeah. It feels as if op needs to put “personal page” in the description of their Instagram, then have a discussion with their boss to understand why they’ve asked for them to use their personal space to advertise their work. It could be a misunderstanding. It could be a first time boss. It could also be an asshole. Until you have the uncomfortable conversation, calmly, it’s hard to know. 
“the US” isn’t one place, it’s 50. You understand that, right?
I'm from the US, but working overseas in SE Asia for a German organization.  I cannot tell you how glad I am to be working for an European organization rather than a US one. Vastly better treatment.
xD
Still truth though.
which US "workers' rights" are relevant here, specifically
Let it...go?
True... Dad can always handle the camera responsibility...
And that's my point
My brother worked for a company, a very well known tech giant, which had unilaterally decided to exert rights over people's personal blogs.
In terms of employment and termination I believe there is only 1 state possibly 2 that actually protect employees from getting fired for bogus reasons
Sure, but 49/50 states have “at will “ employment meaning that you can be fired because your employer doesn’t like the socks you wore to the office last week. There’s just a small handful of things that you can’t be fired for, like race, gender, age, faith.
Yes, but in the context of favorable employment laws that would impart a year’s salary plus punitive damages to employees terminated without cause - all 50 fail, so the state level distinction is meaningless.
I’m pretty sure the US is still one country, even if it acts like 50 3rd world countries in a trenchcoat pretending to be a first world country sometimes
Yeah. But the federal government does have a large hand in labor regulations.
Yeah that's my biggest gripe with the United States, like if you want to have individual laws and ways of running each state then just become a country and stay as a union like the EU. Just call it the NAU (north amarican union).
And some states in the country have better workers rights than others, which is why we should have put in place the workers bill of rights...
By your metric it's more than 50, but also the word "United" implies a collective... So....
sadly.
i guess people who actually do something for this world you know? i think all blue collars, doctors, lawyers , etc. ppl who help the world be what it is, deserve workers rights. and this persons job does seem pretty meaningful also, so he should get workers rights imo.
At will employment, specifically
I think 'let it snow' could have its own innuendo here
And watermarked bits
Your point makes no sense, I was asking others for their input to help me learn about other types.
Unless that tech giant had a presence in social media, I have no earthly idea how their HR allowed that. But - if I had a dollar for every time I was surprised at corporate stupidity, I'd be a very rich man.
Even then proving discrimination is incredibly hard
Literally one of the best descriptions of the states that I’ve ever heard
We tried a confederation like the EU, where every state had what basically was a veto power, but that failed.
If we hide from it, gets worse. Put it on blast, remind everyone how we are more and more in the shit and one day we might just get some changes.
ffs workers rights has it in the name… its rights for workers. One does not divide. One does not discriminate. Either these rights apply to all workers or these rights cant be called workers rights. It is not that hard to understand ;)
Lawyers help the world?
I wasn't asking "which workers?"
How is that a "right" that benefits workers?
Heard Olaf and Pluto had a brief fling. Turns out Pluto isn't into carrots.
This thread brought to you from the people of Brazzers...
Yeah, I couldn't understand how it was even legal, but, yeah, corporate reasons.
Yeah. My boss can fire me for being black by simply writing “his work performance is lacking” on the termination paper.
Sadly EU countries do not have a veto power on things that have been made at EU level. Im not an expert on how confederation worked in USA, but there were other big issues between the two sides (like slavery afaik), which determined how it went down more than economics of the two systems, not to mention that confederation ended in losing a civil war.
Yeah I can see now that having them separate VS what's current wouldn't really provide any benefit other then if they had controlled borders but we all know that isn't possible.
“How is it a right that you can’t get fired for breathing wrong?”
And the new start up OnlyBrands
They’ll cover their bases by putting you on a PIP with unachievable goals so they can cover their asses.
The U.S. had the Articles of Confederation, and there wasn’t a formal veto power. States could just not fund the federal government which is why it served the same purpose.
OMFG, supergenius.
That’s exactly what happened to me when I was pregnant 
States could just not fund the federal government which is why it served the same purpose.
