
    Traveled through Giza, Cairo, a 4 day “luxury” Nile Cruise from Aswan downriver to Luxor and took a 4 hour bus ride to Hurghada then flew home.
  
A positive post about Egypt on r/travel??
What was your travel perspective that changed?
a 4 day “luxury” Nile Cruise
I've always wanted to go but I've heard lately the harrassment from locals ruins it. How was you experience in that regard?
Did you find out who built the pyramids?   And how?
Wow.  Did u actual go in the hot air balloon? I cant imagine the views from there if the pic’s are this amazing from the ground 😊😊
Your trip looks amazing.
I’m so glad to see this. Two friends had very difficult circumstances traveling in Egypt in the past couple of years. The country relies on tourism for a significant portion of its GDP, I believe.
This is so cool. I’ve always wanted to visit Egypt, but I’ve only heard negative trip reports. If you could share links to the cruise and Airbnbs it would be much appreciated!
How did this "change your perspective on travel?"
Wow, gorgeous photos! I’ve always wanted to visit Egypt, it’s the first place I ever wanted to travel to, ever since seeing The Mummy when I was 7! Hopefully one day I’ll get to go ☺️ glad you enjoyed your time there!
What's the bathroom situation like at the sites?
Those Airbnb views really are amazing. Can you share the listing, or maybe the neighborhood's name?
Fantastic pics! Are those water pics the river?!
Completely agree about the call to prayer. I experienced that in Morocco and Turkey and it gave me goose bumps. I got COVID in Sirince, Turkey and had to spend a week doing nothing but convalescing on the terrace of our house. Looking forward to the call to prayer helped save me from losing my mind.
I've been to Cairo and pyramids a couple of times and I must say if they left you to walk around alone simply because you said a polite no then you are one in a million. The hassle, hounding and audacious attempts to get your money is endemic in that place. It's organised and it's what ruins trips for most foreigners. I had folks literally following me through the bazaars repeatedly saying "Dollar...dollar..dollar" nice place with lots of history but the locals are just a nuisance
I did the exactly same trip. Back in Jan of 2022. It was incredible. Only downside is the obnoxious vendors and they have a more conservative culture. Sucked to be a woman but still an impressive trip
We went to Cairo (stayed around Talaat Harb near the Museum) for about $40 AUD per night including a cooked breakfast.. We didn't stay in some walled off resort.. We had an amazing time, just learn to say 'no' and use Uber to get to Giza, we weren't hassled.. We never felt unsafe.. We walked from Talaat Harb to Khan el-Khalili for lunch and back again at night.. Sure people tried to sell us stuff, but if we weren't interested we just kept walking..
Reading some of these comments, it's sad how so many have a negative view of Egypt. I've been twice now and have only ever been treated very good by locals there as a Brit who only speaks English, Cairo is chaotic but in the best ways, its so full of life and things to experience. Yes in most areas there are very poor people and when they see you're a foreigner will try to hustle you but you never feel unsafe and they will stop quickly when you say no and ignore them, they are on survival mode and don't mean you any harm. 
How much koshary did you devour?  That shit’s addictive
Amazing! Can you recommend any tours or accommodations?
These photos are stunning!! I would love to learn more about the history and sight see Egypt , especially Cairo…did you have time to go to any museums or tours in the four days?
I am presuming most of these posts are from Americans. When we went in 2018 we were the only Americans at most of the locations. Some Germans too. Mostly visitors from neighboring mid East countries and tons of Chinese.
Looks cool but I would never take my wife there. Heard too many bad stories
Egypt is great, just got back from only a swimming holiday with the kids. Been there 8 times, explored everything. Never understood the hate against egypt…
So beautiful!
Care to share Airbnb info?
what cruise company did you use?
Where are you dining in the 3rd photo? That view is incredible.
Wow, that really looks beautiful!
Amazing!! One of my favourite places I've travelled to
Pictures look great, honeslty I want to go to Egypt one day because the amount of history they have.
Where is picture 2?
Wowowoowow I need to out Egypt next on my list 😍
I've booked a trip to Cairo in October. Can you  elaborate on how to get to the 9 pyramids lounge? It seems complicated. Also, We're dividing our time there between an inexpensive B&B in Giza (that pyramids view!) and a more upscale hotel in the Zamalek neighborhood. Do you think Giza is safe for staying in with a 9 year old?
Amazing shots OP! You have a great eye!
So beautiful definitely on my bucket list
Egypt is a trip to the past, it is spectacular
People who haven’t been don’t get it. I’m glad you had a good time. I would go back without hesitation
Egypt has always been one of my dream destinations until I read about it on forums etc. It seems that +90% of the visitors described it as a hell on earth full of scam touts, predators, and people that want to hurt you in any way possible.
That water looks amazing, tell me more about it!
Damn this place has been on my list since age 6 watching “The Mummy”
Is the call to prayer so loud it would wake you up?
Thought I was the only person in the sub that had a good Egypt experience
How is it to travel to Egypt as a gay man? I'd love to see it, but attitudes to gay people turns me off.
I went last year and both Cairo and Alexandria were full of friendly people. That said, the area was extremely dirty. A lot of garbage on the road and in Alexandria in particular, you couldn't go a block without mounds of dirt/garbage/feces/oil. I love travelling and have been a lot of places. Egypt was very high on my list and I have to say, if you're going to travel there, do a lot of research on the neighbourhoods you stay in, and take your shots before going.
Amazing
Hey I’m thinking about doing almost this exact trip in December. Any stand out tips, anything you’d do different? Do you recommend the cruise you took or maybe a different one?
That’s such a cool background to have while eating
I would love to make it to Egypt one day. When is the best time of the year, weather-wise?
Oh my gosh, I'm going to Egypt in October, I'm so excited! 
Which cruise did you go for?
Love the pic. Sounds like a really fun experience all around.
Where was the second picture taken?
Amazing pics. Egypt is on my list and I have always wanted to go there.
It’s crazy how different countries are. From living in your country, same city for over years to visiting a new country and it’s like a whole new world
are u a woman or did u travel with any women during this trip?
I hope to experience this kind of sunset some day! Thanks for posting!
Egypt was my first international trip, I was not a fan of Cairo, other than the pyramids of course, Luxor however was incredible. I would go there again any day
I'd love to travel to Egypt one day. It all looks so amazing.
Fckn amazing
So wonderful!  Thank you for sharing.  Where is the second photo taken, please?  The water looks incredibly inviting.
now that is a view!
Hurghada, isn't that where that guy was eaten alive by a shark 😭 but yes would still visit it, just probably won't go swim too far from the shore
Well if i spent 10k on a holiday i fucking well better enjoy it.
I've heard Egypt is one of the worst places to travel in the world
Photo 4: a woman with a headscarf, wearing shorts. Someone missed the memo hahahahaha
The only issue I'd have with visiting Egypt is that there are SO MANY HECKLERS.
Somebody was planning on seeing Travis Scott but had to make the best of it lol
looks beautiful but it’s the #1 most regretted place people visit
Oh yikes the prayers. Don't remind me. Fun for only a day. Quickly torturous.
Hard pass.
Drinking a beer in Egypt seems like an oxymoron, lol.
I don’t know if you already answered this below but I didn’t see what you’re saying why and how it changed your perspective on travel? What was your perspective before? What is it now? How did it change? Why did Egypt change it? Why Egypt of all places?
Went to Israel in 2016 and was too afraid to drive thru to Cairo because of that dangerous road. We went to Petra in Jordan instead. Call to prayer throughout the mountains was just as amazing there as you make it sound. Trip of a lifetime. One day we will get to Egypt
If you like, you can also travel to Iran. Our Iran is a magical land that is full of amazing historical places, special attractions and unique buildings.
The only thing worth bringing to Egypt is a one-way flight ticket out.
I went to Egypt in 2023 this year June for 3 weeks. And considering I’m Kuwaiti. (Egyptians don’t like Kuwaitis) my family was worried but. I still decided to go. First of all:  
all I'd be able to think about is the slaves that built those things
While your photos do look nice, I wouldn't go there even if you paid me.
yeah, mine as well. In a way that I'll never set foot in that country. Liars and cheaters everywhere.
No shit, anything luxury is just going to show you tourist cattered areas, not what the country is actually like.
What a pretentious title lmao
You enjoyed blaring prayers at 3AM? Guess I’m never traveling here
On travel or culture? Because I’ve never been to Egypt, and from what I’ve heard and seen from many people who travel for a living. Egypt sucks.
Looks amazing.  I want to visit but I heard the people there are rude and not worth going ?
I heard Egypt was a shit hole
TIL being rich is good
Any more pics of the chick in the 2nd photo? Good god those curves
Guess OP missed all the agressive salesmen and scammers, as well as the pushy men hitting on women
Who paid you to write this?
[deleted]
Tbh not my cup of tea. Maybe 10 yrs ago it was this beautiful country with thriving sealife. 
Now, that the coral reefs are dying due to tourism, it is just...turkey but with more trash and chaotic traffic. I personally was in Hurghada every 2 years since 2015 and with every travel I could see the decline. 
Also there are scams everywhere and the people in the hotels want you to tip them or else they won't serve you (or "not see you" at the bar desk). 
Maybe it is subjective and only I had these experiences, I also wasn't in Cairo, but I can't imagine the problems being that different in the rest of the country.
Where is photo 4 of? It’s incredible. 
Where were the last 4 pics taken at?
Well, you got the million  dollar  view for sure.
Hi op, really great pics. i have been fascinated by pyramids since I was child. if you don’t mind how much did this trip cost approx. ?
where is the utopia blasting through the pyramids?
Visited Egypt in 1987 on my honeymoon and now that I’m single again, going back in Nov/Dec plus Jordan with Intrepid!
Divine -
I liked Egypt except for being hit on nonstop by touts.
That first picture is beautiful!
I need your booking agent yesterday!
Great photos! Reminds me of my trip to Egypt years ago. Definitely a bucket list place to visit.
Cool pics!
It has something supernatural!
How did it feel carrying around a camera, safe?? Also did you use an fujifilm? the treatment looks like it
I was there on a tour several years ago and loved it. We only had half a day at the Cairo museum. I really want to go back and spend a couple of days at the new museum.
What was the perspective prior and why was it negative
Please elaborate
Would never go to Egypt but I loved the pics!
What happend to Travis ?  No concert lol
Amazing photos!!!
What was your initial perspective?
Where is this hotel? It looks good. I want to give it a try if I have a chance. This perspective is just facing the opposite pyramid
Love Egypt I went there in 2018 and me and my kids loved it definitely in my top 10
I’m on a trip right now in Egypt and we are having a great time. We toured Cairo, Aswan, and currently in Luxor. The pyramids were awesome and our Exoticca tour was pretty awesome. We did a Nile River tour too. Ask for Mika for the 9 day Egyptian tour. Worth the $!
Wow, how you choose your airbnb unit? what preference you looked for? what area/city in Cairo/Giza? TIA
Egypt is great if you have luxury money.  It is real gritty if you don’t.
[deleted]
The pics look amazing! This post really makes me want to go to Egypt
My Egypt trip was incredible! I liked it so much that I stopped by again for a week recently. 
Hahaha I'm heading there in November.  It's been a lifelong dream. Everytime I see an Egypt post I prepare myself hahaha
I had a wonderful time in Egypt recently. Some of the nicest people I’ve ever met. 
The sights and monuments in Egypt are incredible and worth a trip. I’d previously enjoyed travel through other MENA countries, incl. Tunisia, Morocco, Palestine, Jordan.
Thank you! 
Yeah I hate some of the negativity in this sub
They got arrested shortly after taking the pictures and posting.
I've heard it's not too bad as long as you avoid tourist spots.  
Egypt changed my perspective on travel as well. Made India look like heaven.
They all look like professionally taken photos.  Doubt.
If you travel in luxury you’ll have a good time?
Lmao super dramatic title and then zero follow up
"I used to think traveling was for losers. Now, I realize there's some neat stuff out there!"   
They’re mostly all called luxury cruises but in the US it would be comparable to the oldest and cheapest carnival cruise ship, with some pretty “meh” food. 
If you learn to not engage with the vendors, don't speak or really even look at them, you will be fine. You can say "la" (no) and sort of wave your hand in a dismissing manner and they will not continue. I got better and better at ignoring them and it worked really well!
The short of it is, it was fine. 
Doesn’t ruin it at all. It does make it stressful but the locals aren’t harassing you while you’re actually inside the temples or pyramids. They are at any street market or just outside the handful of main tourist attractions. 
Its probably worse than most countries given how much people complain online about Egypt, but everyone I know irl enjoyed Egypt. My colleague recently came back from Egypt with his wife and kids and they had no problems and all liked it (they are of Indian ancestry).
Went with my wife this year. The complaints are way way overblown, I think mostly from people who either rarely travel or thought they could roll into super locals-only areas and get an American-pass. 
If you are on a tailored trip like this then they take care of you and the locals get it. If you go by yourself then it would be a different experience.  It can be rough but they know to leave you alone once you are clear.
I went back in Feb. Esp around the pyramids it was decently rough. Pushing and shoving just to get a ticket. Cops asking us for bribes to stay longer etc. Kids asking for all kinds of stuff as we drove through the streets. But I really enjoyed the museums and food. Females in our group weren't acknowledged as much like in a lot of middle eastern culture, but it may have actually reduced a bit of my tension during our travels.
Aliens using telekinesis
Apocalypse from X-Men
The Egyptians
Jews. College education.
~12,000 years ago, probably resonant frequency or something
The Isu to hide their vaults.
We did! First hot air balloon ride too! Great experience rising up over The Valley of the Kings, Luxor, and the River Nile. 
Having cash, travelling in a organised tour and not interacting with the locals change your perspective.
Thank you for your positivity! 
The best in Giza in my opinion! 
I’m not the OP, but it’s just Giza. 
So the entire country wakes up to pray at 3 AM for like 10 minutes then back to bed?
Sounds like hell to get disturbed 3AM every night but each to their own.
Yeah, this person is just lying.
Were you assaulted or harrassed? (Or both)
May i ask where you stayed during those 2 visits? Airbnb or hotel? and how to choose a good airbnb unit? (i mean the preferences/areas etc)
[removed]
[removed]
Yeah I honestly don’t get it.
Can you share that Giza Airbnb link with me if you don't mind?
It's wet
Depending how close to a mosque you're staying, yes
Just left Egypt a couple weeks ago, and there were two openly gay couples on our Nile dinner cruise in Cairo. Both couples said they were really enjoying their time there for whatever that’s worth. 
As long as people don't know you're gay, it's safe.  I know quite a few gay men who live in Egypt and they do just fine.  I wouldn't recommend trying to hook up with anyone while you're here, but if you're not Arab/Egyptian, you'll be fine.
How was the cleanliness of bathrooms and such?
What are those neighbourhoods if i would say? and you used Airbnb for those right?, can you share links or on what preferences you base your search/choice?
Did you go for Airbnb or a hotel? and what area/neighbourhood did you choose if you don't mind?
Exactly! 
It's the worst place in the world if you go expecting anything other than a 3rd world country with thousands of years of rich history and do no research.
Depends on you and expectations. Pandhandling like crazy. But just find a good group and you’ll be good. Also don’t expect a super clean, developed, fair society. Dirty, full of traffic, and a lot of hassle at places like hotels and airports. If you go in with that in mind, it has some of the most beautiful culture, food, sites, and beaches in the world.
And I've heard that aliens built the pyramids, doesn't mean it's true
Hecklers?  You mean there are lots of people hollering insults at you about the clothes you're wearing or the way you walk?
Terrible place
Tell me about it; my fiance and I stayed in Istanbul for a month and the daily adhan was driving us absolutely insane after two days. Honestly I would hate ANYTHING that loud that often - church bells, children singing, loud music - it's intrusive and unfair to the many of us who aren't Muslim.
Well the negative perception of Kuwaitis is mostly negative because of the overflowing racism against Egyptians in Kuwait. I was appalled by the videos that came out of Kuwait. I have only met Kuwaiti in the US, my perception was very positive. In fact, one of my best friends is Kuwaiti, I wanted to visit Kuwait for a period of time. But the racism is against Egyptians is disgusting in Kuwait — my Kuwaiti friends confirmed that.
Egypt is indeed a nice place, do you have any concerns about that place?
I think so too, even a bit fake
Considering they put "luxury" in quotes for their very expensive cruise, I think op is a pampered luxury traveler
[deleted]
In march I had a wonderful time spending about 300€ for a week, including flights
I went to Egypt and overall was super glad I went. Only after going did I read the travel subreddit and see tons of hate towards Egypt. I’m super glad because I may have been dissuaded from going. Egypt was one of my best travel experiences out of the 46 countries I’ve been. It’s definitely not a relaxing vacation with all the small scams and people constantly trying to harass you to buy things or take taxis and what not. 
check out Egypt Serai Travel. Their tours are great!
I'm going solo in a couple of months. Where would you recommend I get the guide? My hotel or TripAdvisor? Thanks.
This can only come across as naive, but I'm heading to Egypt late November. How would I go about getting a guide and what would I need to know about that in general?
Headed there in November myself 🙂 also a lifelong dream. Enjoy your trip.
At this point, Europe is just as bad with all the hustlers trying to sell shit to tourists.
No, a seasoned traveler can have a bad experience in Egypt.  It is a hard place that knows very well who is local and who is not.  Any time you have huge levels of poverty and corruption that caters to the rich you will get some issues.  "Poverty is the mother of all crime" said Marcus Aurelius.  Egypt is not immune from that, suggesting so is pretty dangerous.
Agreed on the people. I’ve been to a lot of countries and they stand out as super friendly and nice.
Yes, people are used to vacationing in "nice" places, as that is preferable to not nice places full of sexual assaulters, scam artists, misogynists, religious zealots, corruption etc.
Wow, i love your track history (60 cities backpacked :D) May i ask what you have used for your stay? Airbnb vs hotels? and why? and what should be my preferences (or what would you optimise for yourself) if i chose Airbnb
What happened? Did you pay the bathroom cops?
Much appreciated. What was your total budget for the trip if you don’t mind me asking?
It's warranted
People should lie and pretend that they didn't get groped or scammed or whatnot?
money = travel good, view of travel good, mind changed on concept of good travel
[deleted]
Bahahaha
Idk man, I took one of those last December and it was the most luxurious and cleanest "hotel" I've had in Egypt. Food was good too, but the need to wake up every day long before dawn was terrible.
I disagree. There are some incredibly high end Nile cruises.
If you don’t mind me asking, what is your ethnicity?
Beautiful pics! I love hearing a positive post about Egypt because no matter the reservations I may have, I still plan to go there in the future. I’m from Southern CA as well and always have been fascinated with Ancient Egypt since early childhood. I’m currently staying 9 weeks in Bosnia and hearing the call to prayer is one of my favorite parts about the different culture here. Cheers to more far off places ahead!
Any suggestions on the lesser know ones? I’m considering going last minute in a few weeks to spend 1.5-2 week there
Did you book your guide through your hotel or an app like TripAdvisor ?
[deleted]
[deleted]
What an amazing experience- I definitely want to check into Egypt for my next trip ❤️
How did you go about booking it?
Did the same ride, same location. Absolutely kicked ass!
I think you must have done the same balloon tour that i did a few weeks ago! ours was chaotic and hilarious because the wind meant we couldn't take off on time. We landed in a sugar cane field and terrified some donkeys and a farmer brandished a big knife at us as we traipsed back to the road and our van. I recognize the balloon!
Very welcome!! 🩷
May I ask what cruise you took along the Nile?
I don't think your comment showed up. The sub, or reddit, might block those links due to spam.
I can't seem to find that comment with the link, unfortunately. Would you be able to provide it again?
If they pray, yes. I partially grew up in a Muslim country and I don’t pray—you eventually get used to it and just sleep through the morning call to prayer lol
Traditionally the call to prayer happens five times daily. I can't vouch for how many people actually get up in the middle of the night to pray, but it was certainly broadcast impressively and regularly. My impression during the day is that most, but not all people just went about their business when it was happening, especially in a relatively cosmopolitan city like Istanbul.
there are 5 prayer times a day. the times depend on the position of the sun so they change throughout the year and often have at least 1 at an inconvenient time. the speakers sound each prayer time, called the "idan". people follow these prayers in various degrees of strictness. some make sure they pray every single one, some will do 1 or 2 a day, and some won't pray at all. you also have the option of making up for a missed prayer.
they are jarring at first but you get used to them pretty quickly haha. frankly if you want to spend time in the cities in egypt you'll have to adjust to constant loud noises lol
I live in the Middle East and most people don't do the first prayer (a lot of people don't really pray at all if they're not particularly devout). 
Ideally yes, however many people nowadays are neglectful or lazy, and it is the job of the practising Muslim community to befriend and invite them kindly back to the practise of the prayer
Honestly you just sleep through it if you’re used to it
There is excessive heckling in Cairo but the rest of Egypt is not the same
Just harassed. I kept my brother or my dad with me at all times. They wouldn't approach but if I was alone they would come up and try to talk, touch my hair etc. So I learned real quick don't be alone. I was walking from a coffee shop to our hotel which were not thay far from each other at all.
Let’s harassment then NYC for sure
Edward Said, this comment!
All humans are animals
Thanks. What about travelling openly with my partner?
About the same in most other 3rd world countries. The nice places are nice, and the less nice places might be a hole in the ground with a bucket of water for flushing.
Hotel...!  Actually, I'm going on a tour through a tour company, and they chose the hotels and locations for me. 
I cannot emphasize this comment enough.  I'm American and have lived in Egypt for a few years now, and consistently the biggest complaints I hear are people with no street smarts or common sense thinking they can just walk around Cairo and DIY travel here.  Do your research, get a tour, use Uber, be very aware of your surroundings, and don't fall for common scams and you will have a great time here.
Hi, that’s unfortunate. Anyway to link that post here? I’d be interested in reading through it.
OP said they avoided all people at almost every opportunity, lol
Google 'worst places to travel reddit'. Egypt is always at the top of the list.
They should do something about it, it's a needless & stupid way to lose a lot of potential tourists and the prosperity they bring.
Are you denying aliens exist, have visited earth, and likely have gravity technology?
Definition "A heckler is a person who harasses and tries to disconcert others with questions, challenges, or gibes."
"Unfair"???
Then don’t go there lol. I’m atheist but I don’t expect other countries to adapt to MY lifestyle
Racism against Egyptians is  high in Kuwait i can confirm that as a Kuwaiti. But it’s not like in Egypt. You get into street fights just by meeting someone Kuwaiti. Plus they kept harassing me while I was in markets.
Doubt it. I did a "luxury" Nile cruise in 2017. Trust me, they put it in quotes for a reason. It cost me $50 for two nights and while it was very enjoyable it was far from deluxe. We ran aground twice and I got sick from the food, lol. 
And there’s nothing wrong with being a pampered luxury traveler!
Luxury for foreigners is not very hard to achieve in Egypt given the exchange rate
Dude I just got back from Egypt 6 months ago.  I know.  That country is super classist and I do all my own research before going to all these places — I travel all around the world.  In Egypt everyone does a tour and it depends where you get it for how much you are priced.  Probably not a great idea to casually talk to someone like they are ignorant.  Hurghada is a lux Red Sea resort town, yeah you can explore cheap options but that’s besides the point.
That's just wrong
Egypt (along with Jordan) is on my list to visit.
[removed]
Only after going did I read the travel subreddit and see tons of hate towards Egypt.
I just looked them up online on TripAdvisor then emailed them. Emo Tours was one, Luxor and Aswan was another.
You can look on tripadvisor for Egypt tour guides and there will be a list of them with ratings. Choose a few and compare the different tours that they offer and shoot off a few emails.
u/BasedChickenFarmer May i ask both of you, if you preferred using Airbnb over hotels? and how to choose between the different listings, what to look for? or what should be the preferences to choose according to? TIA!
You visited two of the most touristed cities in the world and the two that are most known for street hassle in Europe. Don’t judge Europe based on that. Same as don’t judge Africa based on Cairo hassle.
A seasoned traveler can have a bad time anywhere. A lot of people who have never traveled to a poor country before just decide to go to see the pyramids and think it will be this vast desert and nice accommodations. Then they get there and are totally out of their element. They get stuck talking to every person selling stuff. They take a tour from the first guy that walks up to them. They have a bad time. It’s not a luxury trip. 
Those people exist, and don’t exist everywhere on the planet. If you open your eyes a bit you can find some pretty amazing things and people everywhere you go.
Thanks. Are you asking about Egypt or just in general when traveling?
I don’t mind at all. 
No it's not.
That’s not what I said…
You don’t need a lot of money to live in luxury in Egypt. I just spent a month there and only spent $300 USD, and I certainly lived like a king
Wut
Why would you have to wake up before dawn?
Hey, please share which cruise operator was it and route that they followed, if you don't mind, planning to go in December.
Best ones are the dahabiya sail boats as opposed to the cruise ships. On a dahabiya you are able to go to places where the ships cannot, due to size. They are smaller with around six to eight cabins, and travel at a sedate pace which allows you to really soak up the Nile atmosphere.
Not with rock climbing and water slides
Which company?
I don’t mind. 
Also, are you a man?
Salud fellow Southern Californian! Hope you are able to experience Egypt soon!
I recommend a dahabiya Nile cruise. You see all the major sights at a slow pace and are able to dock where the cruise ships can’t. Dahabiya Nile Sailing run by Samir Abbas is wonderful. We went on a 20th anniversary trip last November from Luxor to Aswan and it was sublime.
Saqqara Pyramids were almost empty while I was there.
May i know where are you willing to stay? Airbnb or a hotel, and the why of it? confused what to choose myself. And what to be your preferences of choosing the Cairo airbnb unit?
highly recommend a pre-booked tour. my friends have been travelling with an agency called Egypt Serai Travel. Jeb Brooks mentioned them once in a vlog of his as the agency who planned his honeymoon trip. give it a watch on his page or go to their website.
Lol, be careful…someone will call you a feckin eejit who’s too busy echoboxing the “alien theories are racist because white people didn’t build Machi Pichu” meme to see a joke & thinks the builders of the pyramids were “hunter gatherers who decided to build something marvellous” as opposed to a highly educated & advanced agrarian society who’d planned them for centuries.
Okay Adolf...
You can just click his username and look at his comment history.
PM me and I’ll send it you. 
They don't compare at all.
As long as nobody knows you and your partner are gay, you're completely fine.  People here have next to no ability to tell if someone is gay or not.
I could not agree more that Egypt is not a beginner country. Your paragraphs are well described. Gain some experience then give it a visit. 
Oh wow! that's really interesting, saw some did the same move (living in Egypt for a couple of yrs) was it airbnb or how you rented/bought or what exactly for the apartment part
Egypt is the worst place to travel to?
You should probably head on over to Gary Indiana, or Magnitogorsk Russia.
Valley of the kings didn't have many (any?) sellers. It's pretty organised. Guides aren't even allowed into the tombs. They will take you by golf cart from an entrance to the actual site.
Valley of the kings didn't have many (any?) sellers. It's pretty organised. Guides aren't even allowed into the tombs. They will take you by golf cart from an entrance to the actual site.
If you're even vaguely white anywhere you go in Egypt is not a fun time if you prefer to travel and be left alone. Lots of absolutely amazing history but the culture is just to harrass tourists.
Seriously, that was incredibly xenophobic, wtf
Sorry about that, it is quite frustrating. I understand that gulf citizens get harassed in Egypt — mostly because of the perception that they can get easily scammed.
[deleted]
There is not but you will get some hate as you should.  The amount of entitlement I saw in Egypt made my stomach turn.  Hard to see Europeans hard bargain and complain to the low level Egyptian guides who were just doing their job (and hardly getting paid).  Just know if you get a 5 star treatment while others are starving 100m away -- you might look like an asshole.  But that's your adventure!
Hurghada is mainly a budget package holiday town, it's hardly a lux resort. https://www.loveholidays.com/sem/hurghada.html?WT.mc_id=pgo-44809216727-kwd-364009504&ch=des&gad=1&gclid=CjwKCAjww7KmBhAyEiwA5-PUSgkkhLu9NfVRTcyGIhsAQmwY-QSJUxNQeKfBW2hTlm_zIbZKcwDUjhoCF_UQAvD_BwE
I went as solo female without any tour and it was hell. Definitely recommend a tour if you do go. It's the only place I've ever been where I truly felt scared every time I walked outside. Exhausting too. A tour would have been much better.
I want to go to Jordan and Iran so bad.  As a 'Murican though, one of those is definitely off the list for a bit.
I did Egypt(Giza, Aswan, Cairo, Alexandria, Luxor, amd Hurghada) in 2021 and Jordan(Wadi Rum, Petra, and Dead Sea)in 2022. Egypt is great and is even better if you avoid traveling with a tour group. My wife and I hired an Egyptologists (who is now a friend) and it was amazing.
Can’t speak for Egypt, but Jordan is incredible and the people there were beyond kind. Highly recommend it as a fellow female traveler.
I will look this tour up bcus i also want to go to jordan, a part of Egypt that i didnt previously get to and also Israel.  would like to see if i can find a tour to do all three next year
Thank you 🙏
Thanks!
For Egypt I didn't even consider airbnb. 
Generally yeah, but specifically for Egypt's case if possible (i guess there are overlapping between the general preferences anyway)
Was ur trip under a week?
Hope you don't mind this question, but did you get any vaccinations before going?
Wow - I expected Egypt to be overpriced simply because it’s so popular. Is it really that cheap in-country?
DMing you!
I think it’s just that most redditors are just…not very self aware
Thanks a lot for using your brain and making sense
I haven't been to Egypt but most complaints I hear are about the constant pestering and always having to have your guard up. It's not that people are actually getting scammed (some do) but it's more the annoyance of having to deal with it. Most tourist destinations aren't nearly as bad as Egypt seems to be in that respect.
For example it's a 3.5 hour drive to get from Aswan to Abu Simbel. And then the hot air balloons were starting in Luxor before dawn and we needed to drive there for an hour. Four day cruise and only the last day we could sleep in.
We used something available on viator, route from Aswan to Luxor. Just pick one with the highest rating to price ratio. They're all pretty much the same.
Lol true
AMA, Viking, Sonesta...I think there's a misunderstanding. River Cruises are VERY different than ocean liners
I’m a black American woman and I got a lot of this as well! Mainly being called a “Nubian Queen”, which I found confusing as my immediate family is Swahili…but I guess we’re both kinda dark lol? 
Maybe this sentiment is corny, but as a mexican american  I think it’s so cool  that these strangers that are descendants from such a rich and ancient  culture considered me among their own.  So much  identity affirming weight in those words “my brother”  that I crave that the USA lacks (putting it nicely). 
Which is why I also try to get as far as I can from American culture when I go abroad 
Bro! RIP Kobe.
That's what I was going to ask. Gender and apparent ethnicity may influence how others act around and toward you. This is true everywhere, of course, but in some places the impact will be stronger.
OP is a man.   
I ended up going to Thailand and America. I would have stayed within walking distance of the Pyramids and somewhere (usually hotel) that included Western breakfast (saves money and if you get food poisoning/ gastro you can eat the dry bread / fruit etc) and maybe even airport transfers.
Literally no one thinks hunter gatherers built the pyramids, and the history of claims that various non-Europeans didn’t actually build the things in their countries is a well-documented part of 19th and 20th century racism.  The scientists who do the archeological work on the architecture of those advanced agrarian societies are the ones most frustrated by the racist assholes making the arguments that it must have been aliens, or secret visitors from Europe, or whatever.
That's what I did. That's why I'm saying it didn't go through to the sub.
You’re right, NYC is way worse
I rented an apartment, but I've traveled around the country in AirBnBs, crashing with friends, and hotels.  I just go for hotels if traveling in Egypt. They're usually pretty high quality
I'm guessing you didn't bother googling...
Considering how much disgusting misogyny I dealt with traveling the middle east, let's call it even.
How is it xenophobic? I respect everyone's right to practice their religion in their private home or place of worship, or in public if you're not bothering others. If I put a loudspeaker on the side of a building and 5 times a day I shouted, "God doesn't exist, stop believing in a fairy tale," you'd rightfully be pissed off at me for disturbing the peace, even if both of us were atheists. 
Right?? I avoid posting here because I don’t stay in hostels or free-range Thailand
I did a tour in India as a solo female and had an absolutely wonderful time - so will definitely go to Egypt with a tour.
Jordan shouldn't be off your list at all.  Jordan is one of the safer places in the Middle East IMO.  I'm American and I have been, as have several Americans that I know.  I think you would love it.  Iran obviously is a no go, you are right about that.
I solo'd Jordan as an American - zero issues whatsoever.  Definitely not in the same level as Iran or most of the rest of the ME as far as dangers for solo travelers
Thanks a lot :))) really appreciate it! one final qs if you don't mind; what was the night rate for that Zamalek hotel?
I’m prob not the best to answer for Egypt. I stayed about 45 mins from downtown Cairo in an upper middle class area called madinaty. I only stayed there because I was visiting someone who lived there and it just made more sense. It was an Airbnb for a nice two bedroom apartment for around $35 per night. 
Chat to your doctors and figure out your risk profile.
Egypt is very inexpensive. As long as you're not constantly falling for a scams, you can travel independently in Egypt for a couple of weeks for as little as $1800-$2,000...and that's a luxury splurge. That of course does not include your international flights.
Egypt is cheap but which part of their $10k price tag for a 4 day trip are you calling cheap?
I've been to Egypt, and most of the pestering is in major tourist attractions like the pyramids. Really, it's no different than what you experience anywhere else like the Vatican in Rome or the Eiffel Tower in Paris.
Girl, you’re worth 5 cows AND 3 goats. 
Thats super corny, “my brother” is just an islamic thing bro yall are all brothers under allah
True they also offered to give Sal Governale free coffee when they saw him as one of their own. Of course, as an italian, he turned them down.
So much identity affirming weight in those words “my brother” that I crave that the USA lacks (putting it nicely).
Thanks a lot! really appreciate your answer :).
It's not, at all
Great thanks, may i know what was the range of the monthly rent?
Oh, Jordan is absolutely on the list!  In fact, I'm more interested in going there than Egypt.  I'm not at all worried about visiting Jordan, in terms of safety or anything (hell, I'd probably rather go there than Dubai or Saudi Arabia). 
160 aud per night (so maybe around 120 usd?).
Great thanks!
Wow that’s great to know! I spent my formative years in Detroit so I’m naturally very weary of strangers, but I’d definitely look into all the scams just in case. I’ve always wanted to visit Egypt, I’ll have to investigate this further. Thanks for the info!!
I mean, $7k of that was business class flights, the rest is still not cheap but it's not ridiculous
[deleted]
it was a 2 week trip total i guess!? he said 4 days for Cairo only, but he visited 3 other cities
well said.
Egypt has a very sizeable Orthodox Christian population who speak the same
well, still a cultural concept not widely present in the US
shrugs
For an okay place, expect anywhere from 5-15000 EGP/month depending on location and how good you are at negotiating
Definitely go. It's such an amazing country. 
Check out Airbnb for some fantastic spots right by the pyramids for cheap! And ignore the street touts. I mean really, ignore them completely.
Ah, misread that but still. $10k for 10 days isn't a budget trip either.
Yeesh..get ready for a shock when you see how racist most of the world is..
Great tips, thanks! What is a street tout though?
I usually travel for 60 USD a day. 
$5k each. And $3.5k each for flights.
They are the men, women and children who will pop out of nowhere when you walk past and try to sell you things. If you engage them, if you even look at them, you will be locked into several minutes of negotiating over some crappy tourist item you don't want and didn't ask for.
Damn, almost 10k for ten days in egypt. Sure flights and a "luxury cruise" sum up but egypt is considered as a low budget destination from europe where you can have a very nice trip for less than 1k/p. So would be interssting to see a cost breakdown as imho this can be done a lot cheaper.
No, but nowhere near the point where I start going "Wow, what a cheap trip!"
